- So now that we've generated a hash, and talked about
why that hashing algorithm shouldn't be used for passwords,
I wanna show you how to actually use BCrypt
to hash a password.
Now again, this is outside the JCA, but this is very
important for Java developers to understand.
Now let's jump into our ID and the first thing
that we need to do is open up our pom.xml file.
We're gonna add a new dependency.
And the dependency that we are going to add is jBCrypt,
and this comes from the group de.svenkubiak.
And we are going to use version 0.4.1.
Go ahead and let Maven do its thing, and download that jar.
And then we're gonna go ahead and open up our HashUtil,
so in src, main, java, com.frankmoley.crypto hash,
open up HashUtils.
This is actually a super simple algorithm to use,
because they've done all the work for you.
So it returns a string, so we are going to do
a public static string, hashPassword,
and we will simply pass in the password.
Now the first thing that you may be saying is,
"Wait a minute, don't we need to salt?"
And we do need to salt, but the implementation of
BCrypt that we have actually has a password salt generator.
In addition, BCrypt stores the salt with the output string.
So we will do a BCrypt.hashpw, and we will pass it
the password attribute, and then we will call it back
into the BCrypt library, gensalt.
Now you notice that there's three different methods here
that we can use to generate salt.
One is plain or default, in which case
we're gonna need ten rounds of BCrypt.
We also can pass in an integer, in which we will adjust
the default number of rounds for BCrypt.
We also can pass in a separate secure random generator
if we want to, however, it will do a secure random
behind the scenes so we don't need to deal with that.
We're just gonna go ahead and accept the default round
size of ten, but now we need to create a method
to determine if they are verified.
Think about how you actually look up a password
in the database.
You might go get the user record based on the user name,
and you would get a password string from the database,
and that password string was hashed.
So you would then need to be able to compare
that hashed password against a hash of the incoming
password that they've typed, and the BCrypt library
that we are using has a method called Check Password,
where we pass it in a password, and then the hashed password
itself, and that should return a value that we can then
determine true or false whether these two are the same.
So let's jump into our tests, so in source, test, java,
in the Hash package of com.frankmoley.crypto,
we are going to create a new method.
I'll shrink that down there so we can see a little easier.
So a new test, and that test we will simply call
testPasswordRoutine.
Now I am going to create a secret phrase,
that is essentially my password.
So the secret phrase that I'm gonna use is
correct horse battery staple.
Now I want you think about what we talked about in the last
video about entropy, and do a Google search on that,
you might find the comic rather amusing that
that comes from, as well as a little bit enlightening.
So we'll simply create a password hash using our
HashUtils.hashPassword and we will pass it our secretPhrase,
and we will do a system.out.println on that password hash
so that you can see how the BCrypt is output.
And now I'm gonna do an assertTrue, and what I wanna do here
is I actually wanna go in and call the verifyPassword
routine, where I send in our secret phrase,
and then our passwordHash.
Now since we just executed this we do assume that this
is gonna return true, but I want you
to see how this actually works.
Let's go ahead and just run that test.
And as soon as compilation is done here
we'll see some output.
So take a look at the actual string here that we see
in the console, $2a$10$Xz...
So if you take a look at that, the salt is actually embedded
into there, as well as the number of rounds
that this actually took place.
That $10 tells it that it was ten rounds.
The hash is also embedded in this string.
That's how the verify password is also working,
because it takes the number of rounds in the salt
and applies it to the incoming password, and rehashes it.
Now what you'll find is that BCrypt actually
takes a little longer than a 256-bit SHA hash,
and that's on purpose, that inherent latency
prevents brute force attacks from being scripted.